---
layout: release
title: Shutter 0.99.1
author: Alexey Sokolov
permalink: /releases/0.99.1/
version: 0.99.1
tags: [release]
---

A small fix-mostly release.

The fix is the
[compatibility](https://github.com/shutter-project/shutter/issues/407) with
GLib 2.70. GLib strictened the way how GApplication is initialized, and Shutter
apparently was doing it incorrectly before, resulting in inability to run
Shutter again to bring up the main window, or to take screenshots from command
line. The fix works with older GLib as well.

The new feature is a rudimentary Wayland support. Don't get too excited about
it yet. All it does is it asks the compositor to let user take the screenshot,
and user will be presented with some implementation-defined UI to select the
window or area, which we cannot control at all. Maybe the limitations will be
lifted in future, but no promises. Also there are multiple cases where it
doesn't work, e.g.:

* The compositor doesn't even support [XDG Desktop Portal
  API](https://flatpak.github.io/xdg-desktop-portal/portal-docs.html#gdbus-org.freedesktop.portal.Screenshot)
* The backend for the XDG Desktop Portal API doesn't match the compositor
  running, e.g.  Gnome's portal backend cannot take screenshot on KDE, and
  instead it silently does nothing

We can't even meaningfully handle these cases, other than adding a huge timeout
to the call, because perhaps the user is just taking time interacting the UI
shown by the portal backend.

Finally, dependency on
[Gtk3::ImageView](https://metacpan.org/pod/Gtk3::ImageView) is bumped to v10:
the improved selection tool added in [Shutter 0.98](/releases/0.98/) got moved
upstream.
